README.md, before:

# wikibase-changes

Tool to extract diff from a wikibase instance

- [wikibase-changes](#wikibase-changes)
  - [Required](#required)
  - [Install](#install)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [Steps](#steps)
    - [Read updates](#read-updates)
    - [Sites HDT build](#sites-hdt-build)
    - [Create new HDT from sites/src hdt](#create-new-hdt-from-sitessrc-hdt)

## Required

- Java 17
- Lombok plugin (Dev only)

## Install

You can download the latest version in the [release section](https://github.com/the-qa-company/wiki-changes/releases).


You can also clone and compile the jar by yourself with these commands

**For now, you need to use a custom library to fix an issue with the Java 9 dependencies here: https://github.com/ate47/hdt-java/tree/diff_fix, clone it and run `mvn install -DskipTests` to isntall it**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/the-qa-company/wiki-changes.git
cd wiki-changes
./gradlew shadowJar
mv ./build/libs/wikidata-changes-*-all.jar wiki-changes.jar
```

## Usage

```bash
java -Xmx4g -jar ./wiki-changes.jar --date UTC_DATE_TOSEARCH --hdtsource YOUR_PREVIOUS_DUMP
```

- `UTC_DATE_TOSEARCH` is the date to search the changes, you can type `java -jar ./wiki-changes.jar -T` to get the current date.
- `YOUR_PREVIOUS_DUMP` is your previous HDT dump to diff/cat to the changes.
- `-Xmx4g` is here to specify the memory to allocate to the process, here 4GB, the diff/cat computation and the changes hdt creation can require a lot of memory.

the result will be in `cache/result.hdt`.


## Steps

The wiki-changes is composed of multiple steps, you can ignore with an option.

### Read updates

Find the updates in the wiki and put it in the `cache/sites` directory, will also write deleted subjects into `cache/deletedSubjects` (one line/subject).

**Ignore option**: `-C` or `--nonewcache`.

### Sites HDT build

Create an HDT from the `cache/sites` directory to `cache/sites.hdt` .

**Ignore option**: `-H` or `--nonewhdt`.

### Create new HDT from sites/src hdt

Use the HDT in `cache/sites.hdt` and the hdt specified in `--hdtsource` to create a new HDT to `cache/result.hdt`.

**Ignore option**: Don't specify the `--hdtsource` option.

Commit message:

remove logs, add 'no' options and set to 1.0.1

README.md, after:

# wikibase-changes

Tool to extract diff from a wikibase instance

- [wikibase-changes](#wikibase-changes)
  - [Required](#required)
  - [Install](#install)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [Steps](#steps)
    - [Read updates](#read-updates)
    - [Sites HDT build](#sites-hdt-build)
    - [Create new indexed HDT from the sites and source hdts](#create-new-indexed-hdt-from-the-sites-and-source-hdts)
      - [Diff HDT](#diff-hdt)
      - [Cat HDTs](#cat-hdts)
      - [Create index](#create-index)

## Required

- Java 17
- Lombok plugin (Dev only)

## Install

You can download the latest version in the [release section](https://github.com/the-qa-company/wiki-changes/releases).


You can also clone and compile the jar by yourself with these commands

**For now, you need to use a custom library to fix an issue with the Java 9 dependencies here: https://github.com/ate47/hdt-java/tree/diff_fix, clone it and run `mvn install -DskipTests` to isntall it**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/the-qa-company/wiki-changes.git
cd wiki-changes
./gradlew shadowJar
mv ./build/libs/wikidata-changes-*-all.jar wiki-changes.jar
```

## Usage

```bash
java -Xmx4g -jar ./wiki-changes.jar --date UTC_DATE_TOSEARCH --hdtsource YOUR_PREVIOUS_DUMP
```

- `UTC_DATE_TOSEARCH` is the date to search the changes, you can type `java -jar ./wiki-changes.jar -T` to get the current date.
- `YOUR_PREVIOUS_DUMP` is your previous HDT dump to diff/cat to the changes.
- `-Xmx4g` is here to specify the memory to allocate to the process, here 4GB, the diff/cat computation and the changes hdt creation can require a lot of memory.

the result will be in `cache/result.hdt`.


## Steps

The wiki-changes is composed of multiple steps, you can ignore with an option.

### Read updates

Find the updates in the wiki and put it in the `cache/sites` directory, will also write deleted subjects into `cache/deletedSubjects` (one line/subject).

**Ignore option**: `-C` or `--nonewcache`.

### Sites HDT build

Create an HDT from the `cache/sites` directory to `cache/sites.hdt` .

**Ignore option**: `-H` or `--nonewhdt`.

### Create new indexed HDT from the sites and source hdts

Use the HDT in `cache/sites.hdt` and the hdt specified in `--hdtsource` to create a new HDT to `cache/result.hdt`.

**Ignore option**: Don't specify the `--hdtsource`

#### Diff HDT

Remove all the subjects of the sites from the source HDT and create a new HDT without them in `cache/diff.hdt`.

**Ignore option**: `-u` or `--nodiff`

#### Cat HDTs

Cat the `cache/sites.hdt` HDT and the `cache/diff.hdt` into `cache/result.hdt`.

**Ignore option**: `-p` or `--notcat`

#### Create index

Create the `cache/result.hdt.index.v1-1` file for the `cache/result.hdt` HDT.

**Ignore option**: `-I` or `--noindex`
